# Project description

## Motivation
*Why is this project useful or interesting, what problem are you trying to address, and why is a DSL an appropriate solution?*

My project is a personal wine tasting notes database. Essentially, users will be able to take brief but useful notes when tasting a wine and then compare their notes with those of wine critics. This is different from other wine tasting tools because it involves the creation of a user-friendly format for tasting notes and translates professional critic notes into this format. A DSL is an appropriate solution for several reasons. One semantic challenge of the project is the creation of a tasting notes language that is accessible to a wide range of users. The project will also pull wine reviews and tasting notes from databases and translate those note formats into my own format. This will allow users to perform side-by-side comparisons of their notes with reviews.


## Language domain
*What is the domain that this language addresses, and why is the domain useful? Who will benefit from this language? Are there any other DSLs for this domain? If so, what are they, and how might they influence your language design and implementation?*

The domain addressed by the language is anyone who wants to write wine tasting notes for themselves. Many "correct" standards for tasting notes have been created, but wine is a very personal experience that is different for everyone. People can benefit from the language by expressing wines in their own words and then comparing those to more traditional tasters. Since the professional tasting notes would be in the same format as the notes taken by the user, this would be an easy comparison. It would also greatly appeal to someone trying to learn about wine, since they would know whether their tasting notes were comparable to those of other tasters.

There are other apps that allow users to catalog wines and write their own tasting notes. One example, [WineNotes](http://winenotesapp.com/) is a very user-friendly format for writing tasting notes. If I had to guess, I would say that it is designed for people in tasting rooms, where each wine should be reviewed quickly before the next taste is poured. It also allows users to search for wines that they have reviewed. I intend to build this functionality into my project and I think that the app UI is a good source of inspiration for my language. If the app was designed to be used quickly by a wide range of users, it would benefit me to see how they formatted their tasting notes. I think that my language would be unique in the comparison feature. Most wine tools that I have found ([Vivino](https://www.vivino.com/), [logabottle](http://logabottle.com/home/index.php), etc) allow users to search for wines, put them in personal "cellars," and even write their own tasting notes. However, I haven't found anything that lets users compare their tasting notes to other tasting notes.


## Language design
*If you had to capture your DSL's design in one sentence, what would it be? What constitutes a program in your language? What happens when a program runs? What kinds of input might a program take, and what kinds of output might it produce? Are there data or control structures that you know will be useful? What kinds of things might go wrong in a program in this domain (e.g., syntax errors, compile-time errors, run-time errors)? How might you design your language to prevent such errors or to clearly communicate the results of errors to the user?

Note: You can describe the computations in the description.md file, or put them in separate files. Just be clear about where they are and what they mean.*

My DSL's design would be: "Building yourself a wine cellar and rummaging through it to learn from your own personal tasting notes." My project has a lot of different components, but the main DSL in the project is the format of the wine tasting notes. A program would be an entry into the cellar, in the format of the wine name and the tasting notes. I haven't decided on the exact format of the notes, but they would involve things like name, varietal, location tasted, personal wine rating, primary/secondary/tertiary aromas and flavors, and additional notes. When a program like this runs, it would be put into the database along with a link to the particular type of wine from a different database. This other database would contain professional information about the wine.

Another program in the language would be a user querying the database and comparing their notes. This would involve the user selecting their wine, a query to the other database to retrieve professional information about the wine, then then conversion of that information into the same format as the user's tasting notes. 

A sample program in the language would take arguments like I described above (personal rating, primary aromas, etc) and the output would be to store the wine in the user's wine cellar/database. Another potential program output from this language would be in the event of a wine comparison. The user would be able to compare a wine in their cellar with professional notes, so the output of the comparison would be the professional notes formatted to look like the user's notes. 

I think that useful structures in the design of this project will be the user's personal wine database as well as the creation of a successful wine object. It will be important to define a standard way of representing wines and ensure that all user descriptions and professional tasting notes can conform to that standard. If there are cases where the formatting does not match up, it will be important to throw sensible errors and provide helpful user messages, such as, "data is not available for this wine." 

Other sources of error in the project could be in querying the database and searching for particular wines. If there are no wines available that match a certain set of criteria, the program should produce appropriate error messages and not shut down. It is also important in designing the language to determine which aspects of a wine description should be optional. Some users may have nothing to write for secondary aromas on a particular wine. In the spirit of the project, this should be completely reasonable. However, if this is an optional attribute, it should be handled by the system as such and the language should not throw errors if the field is left blank.


## Example computations
*Describe some example computations in your DSL. These computations should describe what happens when a specific program in your DSL executes. Note that you shouldn't describe the syntax of the program. Rather you should describe some canonical examples that help someone else understand the kinds of things that your DSL will eventually be able to do.*

Let's run through an example of how a user would use the project from end-to-end. Say that our sample user knows a bit about wines but wants to improve their knowledge. Tonight they have chosen to drink a Sauvignon Blanc. Once they have a glass, they begin writing their tasting notes on the wine. They report the grape varietal, the aromas/tastes of the wine, an individual score for the wine, and their own personal opinions on the wine. At any point while writing their tasting notes, they can search for this wine and include the exact wine as part of the notes. After they finish writing, they can save the notes to their own personal wine cellar and continue enjoying their glass of wine. 

If the user wants to learn how their opinions compare to those of wine professionals, they can search for the wine in their cellar and run a simple command to find professional tasting notes on the wine. They can then see a side-by-side comparison of their notes versus what a professional would have said if they had written notes in the same format. The user can repeat this process for any wine in their cellar. Satisfied that their opinions loosely match with those of the professionals, the user would continue to enjoy their night and their wine.

Depending on the timeline of the project, I might add functionality for users to compare two wines in their cellar with one another (as opposed to professional notes). This could be beneficial if a user wants to see if their impressions of similar wines would be comparable.

