If I understand what you said in class today and what I've read from your writeup correctly, then essentially what you're making is a DSL to enable people to quickly re-write pre-existing tabs and listen to what they sound like.
- input: shorthand notation for tablature (that you're going to design)
- output: MIDI and/or standard notation

I love the idea, but I think it would be worthwile to spend some more time considering your target audience.  Currently you're targeting guitarists who want to check to correctness of a guitar tab.  Your basic use-case is a self-taught guitarist who (understandably) doesn't trust online guitar tabs and wants to see if a tab sounds "right" before using it.  There are a couple issues I see with this.
- As a self-taught guitarist myself, I'd much rather play through a tab to see if it's correct.  In doing so, I'm also practicing guitar and learning the song.  While playing it through, I'd just fix mistakes as I hear them.  You could argue that difficult pieces take a long time to sight-read, but they'll also take a long time to notate.  Recreating the tab (even with shorthand notation) in order to hear how it sounds seems extremely tedious, especially for long pieces/fast guitar solos.
- As I mentioned in class a couple weeks ago, the vast majority of guitar tabs don't include rhythm (some tabs do include rhythm, but they are the minority).  Guessing the rhythm of a guitar tab that doesn't already include rhythm is very difficult without actually playing through the tab.

If you're not convinced, I'd urge you to try re-notating a tab (say, [Hotel California](https://tabs.ultimate-guitar.com/e/eagles/hotel_california_tab.htm)) using your DSL's syntax and seeing how long it takes.  Imagine that a user were to do that, listen for mistakes (we're assuming your DSL turns it into MIDI), correct the mistakes, and then proceed to (finally) learn the tab.  What would be the benefit of this method over simply searching for the top-voted tab of the given song, playing it, and fixing mistakes as you go along?

Sorry if that sounded harsh.  Again, I'd like to reiterate that I love the idea, just not the use-case.  Why not instead target users who want to create tabs from scratch (ie tabs that don't already exist)?  Currently people use graphical tab editors that (like you said) can be slow to work with.  Your DSL could definitely speed up the process.  Personally, I'd love a shorthand way of generating tab, and having a MIDI + standard notation conversion tool would be icing on the cake.  Btw, the reason I'm pushing for this now is that refining your target audience can possibly alter the design choices you make.  For example, if you go with my suggestion you'd probably want to output (non-shorthand) tablature in addition to MIDI/standard notation (see VexTab below).

Other misc things:
- I agree with your assessment that the backend will take almost no time at all, since it's already pretty much written for you.  However, I'd still urge you to stitch it together early on and not save it for last (not to imply that you were going to - just want to make sure something doesn't go terribly wrong last minute).
- Check out [VexTab](http://www.vexflow.com/vextab/tutorial.html).  I was originally going to recommend you use it as an API, but it actually seems like it does everything your DSL is supposed to do, including both the backend conversions and the language design stuff.  So I guess you can use it as inspiration for your syntax, or just try to recreate it?
- Though they are mostly GUI-based, I'd also recommend checking out [TablEdit](http://www.tabledit.com/), [This site](http://www.guitartabcreator.com/), and [ABC Notation](http://abcnotation.com/software) - CTRL + F "tab" and you'll find a bunch of related software/DSLs.
