Great progress this week Aaron! Your DSL seems like its coming together very nicely. I'm glad you managed to rehaul your parser completely while still being able to use your previously written IR. Good foresight on your part for making the IR flexible/general enough. I'm not extremely familiar with guitar tabs, so I can't provide as much insight on the language design aspect (such as what additional language features to include). Instead, I've provided a few suggestions that are general language features that I think your DSL would benefit from. I'll reiterate what we discussed in class with a bit more detail:
### Evaluation Scheme
I personally believe you should forgo linking with the TuxGuitar backend. I think it was extremely ambitious for your DSL to be compatible with two different guitar tabbing software (I think I mentioned this before), so I don't think anyone will really be disappointed if you were to focus the remainder of your time on stream-lining your DSL's interaction with Lilypond. I think refining your DSL's interaction with Lilypond rather than trying to figure out how to interact with the poorly-documented TuxGuitar utility library would line up better with the intentions of the class. If you really have notihng else to do, you can try working with the TuxGuitar library; however, be careful of how much time you sink into it as it seems a bit like a rabbit-hole. For me, it would be more satisfying seeing a complete DSL that interacts robustly with Lilypond rather than an MVP that interacts with both Lilypond and TuxGuitar. 

### Language Design Features
As such, here are a few language-design features that I think would be neat to include:
* As you mentioned, your IR already supports custom tunings, so this is a natural suggestion to include in your DSL.
* Working on a bash script to automate the process of transpiling from the user input to valid Lilypond files. 
* Provide error handling and perhaps even syntax-highlighting in a text-editor of your choice for your DSL. I think of all the suggestions, this would be the most language-design oriented. As we discussed in class, correct me if I am wrong, currently, your DSL simply returns parsing errors that comes with pyparsing. Although this tells you where exactly the parse error occured in your parser, this doesn't mean much to the user. I think we both agreed that it really only means anything to the developer of the DSL. 
* It would be a really cool endeavor to look into syntax-highlighting for a text-editor! [Here](http://docs.sublimetext.info/en/sublime-text-2/extensibility/syntaxdefs.html?highlight=highlight) are a few [resources](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/15646926/sublime-text-how-to-customize-syntax-highlighting) I found for implementing custom syntax highlighting for Sublime Text 2 (I'm somewhat familiar with this). I'm sure there are ways to do custom syntax highlighting with other popular text editors like Atom and even [VIM](http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Creating_your_own_syntax_files). I personally think this would be useful from the user perspective because users wouldn't have to transpile the text before realizing they made a typo somewhere. Of course, I'd only suggest doing this once you've implemented all the language features you intended to for a MVP. 
* As someone who has very little exposure to guitar tabs, here are a few features that most guitar tabs seem to include that you could play with: slides, hammer ons, pulloffs, vibrato, rakes.
