Wow! You made some fantastic progress this week! I am impressed.

You mentioned in your response to Daniel's critique from last week, that you have really moved away from your initial database idea and more into the realm of data visualizations. I don't think this is necessarily a bad thing: it is important to give your project room to change and grow as you meet various obstacles or ideas that might tend to steer you in a different direction. However, you were initially very excited about the database aspect of your project and I wonder if there are ways you could still incorporate pieces of that original vision into your project. I wondered if you might be able to store the wine tasting visualizations somewhere online and allow the user to input an additional command at the bottom of the file to visualize their wine tasting notes side by side with any matching wine visualizations in the database. However, you would have to require all users to input a very specific identification for a wine so that you could search and find someone else's visualization of the same wine. This would probably be a reach for your project, but an interesting one and a neat way to incorporate some aspect of your original idea back into this new version of your project.

I liked your idea of giving the user an option to ask for a professional wine taster's opinion. There are several ways you could incorporate that into your DSL and it would link back to your original idea and provide the user with additional information. The data visualization tool is neat, but if the user can only visualize one wine at a time, by inputting their detailed wine tasting notes, it doesn't really help the user learn any new information. However, if you incorporated something which perhaps displayes a professional wine taster's opinion in the corner of the page beside their visualization, then even if the format is different your program will allow the user to compare their opinion with the opinion of a professional and learn from using the visualization tool.

When we discussed your work in class on Monday, we spent quite a while talking about different output, visualization methods, trying to decide what would be most helpful for the user. One idea that we had, was that you might be able to allow them to specify one of several visualization types. I don't know how much work each additional visualization would be, and if it is a big time sink, there are probably other more important things for you to focus on, but it might be worth it if you spent at least a little time thinking about if that extension would be feasible for your project. 

You dismissed the idea of doing side-by-side wine visualizations for users who are perhaps wine tasting as a fun, social event in a group. However, I wonder how hard it would be to simply extend your language so that a user could write 2 sets of wine tasting notes in one file, with some clear deliminator between the two. This would allow people to compare two wines, or to compare two peoples opinions of a single wine, which seems like it would vastly increase the utility of a program. If you limit it to 1 or 2 sets of wine tasting notes per file, then it seems like you could just add a check at the bottom of the input for a marker showing that there is a second set of wine tasting notes and then just rerun your code to read in the second half of the file.

These are a lot of different ideas about ways you could extend your project and you may not have time to do any, but it seems like if you could incorporate very simple versions of just one or two of these ideas to extend your project, it could make the user experience exponentially better.

I might wait on dealing with error cases until laterif you are pressed for time. Error messages for incorrect files seem important, but probably are not the most important thing. If you do have time to write error messages it seems likea message along the lines of "Please specify the wine's ___  on line ___" would be very simple and easy for the user to understand. I might also suggest having most of the categories as optional, it cuts down on the number of error cases you have to deal with and gives the user move flexibility. 

If you choose a standard format for the wine visualization then I would suggest going with the wine glass or perhaps the wine glass with a smal pie chart or bar graph in the corner, as a secondary image. I think the wine glass would appeal to your end users and you could perhaps organize it so that the after tastes are placed at the bottom of the wine glass, the aromas are placed in some sort of vapor illustration above the surface of the liquid and the color of the liquid changes based on the wine.

I think if your current software stack works, that you should just stick with it and continue working on the rest of your DSL, that can always be modified later and it is not a crucial 'language' part of your project. It seems better to focus on the language developement as it most directly pertains to the user for now and worry about the backend implementation that accomplishes that goal later.
I looked around a little on the internet and did find [this](https://docs.python.org/3/library/json.html#json.load), if you really want to look at more information about ways to go between Python and JSON.



